## 2009
- Sharoda A. Paul, Meredith Ringel Morris. [CoSense: enhancing sensemaking for collaborative web search](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1518701.1518974). 4/2009.*
    - DM: This article is interesting from the perspective of advanced collaborative, ongoing research uses - e.g., several individuals working together on surfacing the best results on a specific topic. 
    - "Broadly speaking, sensemaking is *finding meaning* in a situation. In HCI, sensemakingrefers to the cognitive act of understanding information[24]." - 1.
    - "One of the importantproblems facing HCI research today is the design ofcomputer interfaces to enable us to make sense of the vast amounts of information we encounter every day [24]." - 1.
    - "One of the prominent methodologies in this thread of research is Dervin’s “Sense-making” [4]. Sense-making occurs when a person, embedded in a particular context and moving through time-space, experiences a “gap” in reality. The person bridges this gap by constructing bridges consisting of ideas, thoughts, emotions, feelings, and memories. In the education literature...sensemaking refers to how students derive meanings about their learning experiences and how they identify particular ideas as important [5]. Weick [22], has explored sensemaking in the context of organizations. According to Weick, people organize their world to make sense of ambiguous situations they encounter and enact this sense back into the world to make that world more orderly. In HCI, sensemaking has focused on how users understand complex information spaces [16]. When interacting with large amounts ofinformation, people create representations to organize information in order to make sense of it. Sensemaking is the process of encoding information into external representations to answer complex, task-specific questions." - 2.
    - "...several collaborative search tools have recently been proposed by the research community [7]...they tend to offer two classes of support proposed by Morris & Horvitz [12]: awareness features (e.g., sharing of group members’ query histories, browsing histories, and/or comments on results) and division of labor features (e.g., chat systems, the ability to manually divide search results or URLs among group members, and/or algorithmic techniques for modifying group members’ search results based on others’ actions)." - 2.
    - "The temporality of the search process was important for participants’ sensemaking. Many participants wanted to see a unified chronological ordering of all events in the search process. They wanted to see the complete information path that was followed by other group members, and hence would have liked SearchTogether to make the browsing (in addition to searching) behavior of others more visible." - 3.
    - "The concept of query evolution seemed important toparticipants’ sensemaking; that is, participants wanted totake others’ queries and build upon them." - 3.
    - DM: See article for concepts like action awareness, context awareness, query evolution, sensemaking handoffs.

## 2008
- Jeremy Pickens, Gene Golovchinsky, Chirag Shah, Pernilla Qvarfordt, Maribeth Back. [Algorithmic mediation for collaborative exploratory search](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1390334.1390389). 7/2008.
    - "Using our system, two or more users with a common information need search together, si-multaneously. The collaborative system provides tools, userinterfaces and, most importantly, algorithmically-mediatedretrieval to focus, enhance and augment the team’s searchand communication activities." - 1.
    - "Information seeking can be more effective as a collabora-tion than as a solitary activity: different people bring differ-ent perspectives, experiences, expertise, and vocabulary tothe search process. A retrieval system that takes advantageof this breadth of experience should improve the quality ofresults obtained by its users [4]." - 1.
    - "In this work we explore the pos-sibilities of synchronous, explicit, algorithmically-mediated collaboration for search tasks [10]." - 1.

## 2007
- Athanasios Papagelis, Christos Zaroliagis. [Searchius: A Collaborative Search Engine](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/4282197_Searchius_A_Collaborative_Search_Engine). 10/2007.
    - "Searchius is a collaborative search engine that produces search results based solely on user provided web-related data. We discuss the architecture of the system and how it compares to current state-of-the-art search engines." - 1.
    - "URLs can be explicitly collected (e.g., bookmarks) or implicitly collected (e.g., web-browsing history). These collections of web-related data can be combined, without loosing [sp] their discrete nature, to produce a view of the web from the user perspective." - 1.
        - DM: It would be interesting to add to the ranking algorithm an analysis of sites visited versus sites bookmarked. e.g., it seems likely that sites visited once and never bookmarked across a large number of users are links of low quality.
    - "Our approach is based on the observation that the web users act as small crawlers seeking information on the web using various media, which they subsequently store and organize into tree-like structures inside their information spaces." - 1.
    - "...Searchius is not capital intensive, since it concentrateson a small portion of the data that typical search enginescollect and analyze." - 1.
    - "To order pages by importance,Searchius uses an aggregation function based on the preference to pages by different users, thus avoiding the expen-sive iterative procedure of PageRank." - 1.
    - "Finally, the way peo-ple organize their bookmarks can be used to segment theURL space to relative sub-spaces. This property can be ex-ploited to provide efficient solutions to other applications,including the construction of web catalogs and finding re-lated URLs." - 1.
    - "Under the above context, the ranking of pages inSearchius is based on how many *different* users have votedfor a specific page p. The total number of such votes is called the *UsersRank of page p*." - 2.
    - "The Noise Reducer uses heuristic filters to removefrom the database low quality URLs." - 3.
    - "Searchius uses a similar approach. The IR score of a pageis calculated based on the page title, URL and semantic tag-ging given by users. This semantic tagging is the exact ana-log to anchor links and can produce diverse descriptions ofpages." - 3.
        - DM: The use of aggregate user provided titles, descriptions, and semantic tags instead of actual page content is an interesting idea. I would see this as additive, e.g., one could perform ranking on page rank, user rank, IR score, and user IR score.
    - "To cope with such problems,we introduce an aging procedure for the collected pages. Atpredefined time intervals we reduce the value of each pagein the Searchius database. Since we use a simple value ag-gregation procedure to find the most important pages for asearch query, the effect of old URL collections to search-ing results diminishes through time allowing more room forfresh data." - 4.
        - DM: This is an interesting approach to ensuring that newer pages have a chance to surface in the results while also allowing older pages to retain their authority if they continue to be widely utilized.
    - "The quality of page ordering will be benefited by implicit collection of URLs for three reasons. First, the pages wevisit determine with high accuracy our current interests. Ifwe can monitor the users browsing history then we can al-ways produce a fresh view of how the web dynamics evolve.On the contrary, bookmark collections may be somewhatoutdated. Second, the frequency of visiting specific pagesgives a much better indication of our relative preference forspecific sites than the bookmark collections. Third, the order in which we visit sites can also be used and exploitedin many ways. For example, frequently subsequent sites ina browsing history can be linked as belonging to the same theme." - 4.
    - "When a user adds several pages under a folderhe actually groups them by some sort of similarity. Thisinfers that folders partition the URL-space to conceptuallyrelated sub-spaces." - 4.